A kernel is the core program in operating systems, so they make possible and easier to work with different operating systems. It helps to manage hardware resources and create a smooth connection between hardware resources and software applications. It operates in a specific memory part. That part is protected and only for a kernel. That area is called kernel space and that is different part from user space which is used for user applications from memory. This seperation prevents the computer for a lot of crushes, performance issues and various potential issues.
Kernel plays a great role in computers. So they handle process and memory management, device control, I/o requests, optimizing CPU and so on. When software requests a service, system calls kernel.

There are two main kernel architectures:

1. Monolithic Kernels - It is a kernel type where all core functionalities are integrated into a single large binary. It has fast execution time and more performance. However, it is limited with modularity and scalability. A single failure can crash the complete system. Example: Linux and Unit kernels.
2. Microkernel - It is a minimal kernel type which is designed for only essential services while other services run in user space. It is small and modular and easier to debug and extend. However, it has slower performance. Example: Minix, QNX.

The Linux kernel is open source kernel and it is UNIX like. It is created by a great man, Linus Torvalds in 1991. It is globally used in various systems like Linux distributions and Android. The kernel mostly is written in C language and sometimes he used assembly for optimization.This is monotholic kernel type, allowing components to be dynamically loaded. It operates under the GNU (Gnu isn't UNIX!).
