Both Linux and windows are used in the world by people and companies for a lot of reasons. They have a lot of differences:

1. Source code: Linux is completely open-source, whoever wants can see, read and understand its code from scratch. That makes it more reliable and trustworthy. However, Windows is closed source code and we cannot have any information what is going on behind the sceen, whether they use our information or not.
2. Cost: Most linux distros are completely free and anyone without paying can use it. Windows has paid lisence and to do some specific tasks, you should pay some money.
3. Ease of use: Years ago, Linux's user interface is not good a lot and that is not for standard users, so the process can be complicated for them, so mostly terminal command was used. However, windows has a good user interface which helps them to do most things properly and easily without knowing much technical knowladge. However, nowadays there are a lot of linux distros which has a very good user interfaces at least as windows, even better: Ubuntu, Linux Mint, Zorin Os and so on.
4. Security: Because Linux is open-source and a lot of developers from all over the world see and can debug its code, to find probems in Linux is much easier. It has a wide range of community support. However, Windows is closed source, so just some people can see its code and debug it which makes it less secure. It is more prone to malware and viruses, even most times windows need to use Antivirus programs, but in  Linux in most cases you do need it.
5. Flexibilty: Linux offers greater customization options and is used widely in servers, development, and embedded systems. Windows is typically used in personal computing, business applications, and gaming.

In windows, for file management graphical file explorer is used. In linux, there is both gui tools and commands like cp, mv and so on.
